The third and final method we're
going to look at here in detail
is the applyAllSplitIndex
method.
And you'll see that
this has basically
an optimization approach applied
to the applyAllSplit method we
just looked at.
So let's take a
look at this one.
This is actually very clever,
maybe too clever in some ways,
but it's pretty cool.
What it does is it is
going to create an array
to hold the results.
And this array is created inside
the applyAllSplitIndex method.
And as you can see here, it
uses this totally insane Java
Reflection technique to figure
out the type of the list
and then to create
a new array that
is as big as that item
of the size of the list.
And, yes, it's ugly.
No, there's no other way
to do this that's portable.
Please read the Stack
Overflow article
for more about why you need
to do crazy things like this.
This all comes down to
the fact that generics
are kind of bolted on
to Java in some ways
and are a little bit harder to
work with than we might want.
Then what we do is we have a new
splitter task, except this time
it extends recursive
action not recursive task.
So as a result, the
joins return no value.
And you'll see why that's
the case in just a moment.
We then go ahead and
invoke the splitter task.
And the whole idea here
is that rather than
making copies of subsets
of the list or sublists;
instead, we're going to
keep everything in the list
as it was.
And we're going
to keep everything
in the results array.
And we're going to
simply be passing indices
into the splitter task.
So we're not going to
have to copy any data
or split up the lists.
As before, invoke waits for
the splitter task to finish.
And when it's all done, it goes
ahead and takes the results
array, which is where all
the results have been placed
by the splitter
task recursion, it
converts that back into a
list, and then returns it back
to the caller.
And obviously, these
conversions to and from the list
to array to the list
will incur some overhead.
Now, if we want to get
around some of the overheads
here, what we can do is pass
in the array as a parameter
to the function.
And that's a much more elegant
and efficient way to do things,
because then we don't have
to do all these conversions.
We're not going to
show this example,
but it would be a way
to make it faster,
just changes the
signature a bit.
So it's a bit more obtrusive,
but it's cleaner, for sure.
So let's take a quick
look at how this works.
Splitter task extends
recursive action.
The bulk of this code is going
to look very much the same
as before.
The difference is we
pass indices for the low
and the high bounds of the list,
rather than passing in the list
and then having to split it.
So the compute
method looks similar.
We compute the
midpoint because we
want to split things in half.
And now, what we're
going to do is
rather than working on a
list; instead, we simply
apply the operation on the mlo
element in the original list
parameter and then store it into
the results array at the mlo
location.
So this is pretty clever.
And then you can see that
the else part is actually
quite a bit more
concise, where we're
going to go ahead and create
a new left task, which will be
handling mlo to the midpoint.
So we get the left
hand and we fork that.
We then compute the
right-hand portion,
because we've updated
mlo to be mid.
You can see we updated
mlo to be mid here.
We run the compute method.
And that again runs in the
same task as the parent
to minimize contact switching.
And then when we're done,
we simply say lt.join.
And there is no value
coming back from join,
because this is a recursive
action, not a recursive task.
So join simply works
as a synchronization
point to make sure we block
until the left-hand side has
finished.
And it also makes
sure that the memory
is visible to all the threads,
because it's a synchronization
point.
There's no need to merge
the left and right items,
since they've already
been stored directly
into the results array.
So that's much cooler.
This implementation is also
arguably harder to program
and understand than the
apply all inter version
since it's recursive.
Let's quickly
visualize this method.
It basically runs visually
the same as applyAllSplit.
We have the non-fork
join task client,
put in a new splitter task for
the entire range of the list.
And then we recursively
decompose everything,
so that the threads in
the pool will end up
being able to work on a
more balanced set of tasks.
So again, work stealing,
overhead is low.
Copying overhead is low.
But there's still all
those recursive method
calls, which are pretty fast,
but there is some cost to them.
Once again, we fork and
compute in parallel.
And join is just this
synchronization point.
It doesn't return a new value,
because we've stored everything
into the results array.